hi everyone welcome to the dynamic
pairing capabilities working group
bi-weekly meeting this is October 30th
cool
welcome everyone so sorry recording
please put your names on the attendee
list if you haven't yet
is there a volunteer to take notes today
I can take notes Jim thank you Jim all
right okay is that items to the agenda
if you like to discuss some things front
of interest and updates in the order of
the list of attendees on the notes ok so
Dirk I think you're next for the wedding
yeah my update is pretty brief
unfortunately I've had to work quite a
bit of my job last couple of weeks but
I've just been working on leadership
election which means that hopefully if
we can make it an efficient enough we
may not need to rely on having a
separate pinning service thank you
that's very exciting I've been following
the work any questions for Dirk
but that's neat um maybe we can talk
about that a little bit after everybody
goes near okay added to the agenda okay
I suggest quick before before demos are
before them was if you know I mean after
demos because then was you think any
demos not sure okay next up is Saturday
I'm still writing my notes perhaps
someone could take my in place all right
okay I didn't how are you I'm doing
notes but I will I will I'll just start
talking and it'll fill them in
afterwards okay so basically what I've
been working on is have a sort of basic
protocol for having a bunch of users
that are identified by their care IDs
talk to each other I feel like I've been
reinventing some reinventing some of the
wheel here and that some of the stuff
must already exist but I'm trying to
locate the people who can only find that
working right now I put together some
examples of four candidates for a graph
synchronization algorithm so I have a
graph of deltas you have a graph of
deltas how do we put them together next
up I'm gonna go implement them and and
see how they work and I think try and
put together in the next couple of weeks
a basic chat client that takes into
account you know don't don't show a
message until you've seen the previous
message in that chain or other ones that
I've known about so that is that is the
direction that I'm currently going in
I've also been reaching I also have
started reaching out to people about
putting together like an IP FS sharing
tools conglomerate just figure out who
wants to make these tools and what they
would be useful for um basically taking
in the same way pierced our app has the
tools we used for a pearpod
taking some of those down maybe another
layer as something for ipfs so that both
ago and the j/s team have that available
nice thank you that's super awesome
then cool yo you're just just a question
you're making what uh this in go
I believe it's it's currently and go
just because I feel like if I don't do
it and go
nobody's gonna do it um they're there
they're like they have a different focus
and I believe that this sort of the
sharing functionality is something that
should be like across the across the
board right like I should be able to
share a file with you in goal and and
you should be able to see it in jail and
and you should be able to you know
you'll have a peer pod thing and I
should be able to get the at the very
least the text version of that document
show up in my you know fuse mounted file
system alright like I feel like that's
one of the things I would like to see
happen and there's no one from the NGO
side doing that and so I feel like
having me do that is probably good nice
any questions for them no cool dress
clothes are you ready - it seems to be
inside well can you guys hear me well
yes so comparing to the previous meeting
so I've concluded this year key data
model for the comments on the specified
so essentially I have on the Capt Thank
You team I already have the the nested
comments in terms of the data model it
supports heading comments updating
comments removing comments the basic
stuff basically
so I also co-hosted a workshop with
Pedro almost most ways we just came back
this for this weekend basically I think
it went good
so basically we presented their pure
startup and how can people use that
foundation to develop dynamic apps or
dubs without a blockchain and also it
culminated also with a publish the the
publish of the alpha version and office
crucified which essentially allows you
to install and experiment with
application now it's not finished is a
very awful version but it allows you to
try it out so if you're interested it we
will be in it you can go into the story
there are on the notes and there there
will find there you will find the
solution instructions for you to try it
out and also you can listen and watch a
video on YouTube that basically it shows
showcase is the application briefly so
right now in progress I'm working on the
replies feature in terms of the user
interface as I said it's already
permitted in another model but not yet
easily I'm working on that and also I'm
working on the comments history so for
instance if you edit a comment or delete
the comments you'll be able to to show
or to view the whole history of the
comment itself and my next steps after
that is to have persistence persistency
of the data by using the Pinner
probably it's it's table and i can
deploy it on on some place I talked with
Pedro about having it deployed somewhere
Pedro or maybe someone responsible with
the infrastructure and also I would like
to to take some time to do some
formatting for most improvements but it
like it's more internal stuff between
the the background script of the
extension and the slices themselves the
clients of Taxation
the devil's really blew me away I'm
really impressed with how the extensions
working and uh that there's a lot of
work Wow thank you very much yeah it's
pretty cool if manages multiple
collaborations on different tabs at the
same time you can you can do that and
ever try that and if it's a simpler
version syncs without going into the
security lines which is pretty pretty
cool any more questions or comments
today
No okay so I think next up on the list
is Jim okay so
just
get into the flow of everything after
Scotland but I got a bunch of small
little things fixed and I did a the
highlight I think was I did a live
editing cus with the slack users in
protocol labs I got them all to log in
and do a live editing and there was
still some corruption like if people
type something and then another peer
with like modify what they typed it was
I think Pedro's got some fixes so I want
to test that but had those fixes in and
see if that particular problem is just
in the editor bindings is that's fixed
and I spent most of my last week was
just playing around with pinning and
with Dirk stuff the persister and I
integrated in writing in just just the
pen or not in the web client but in the
node G spinner and I got it successfully
writing in and just yesterday I got it
actually reading back out the there's a
couple little little fixes there but as
long as I'm running the node on a disk
like on my local machine that has access
to the disk I'm just writing out the the
head references to my heart hard
directory on my hard disk and then when
I I can shut down the Pinner start it
back up and all the data gets loaded in
and still there so that's really really
big because before I was running pinners
but they were only persisting in memory
so if all the Pinner shut down you lose
the data and so I think that's a pretty
big milestone so I think my next task is
going to be pedro was doing some work
with scalability testing and he's
playing with the puppeteer cluster I
believe and so I want to try to see how
see how much I can spin up plus I want
to get the see if and get rid of that
corruption problem and then I think with
the pinners
I think if if everything started okay we
can start pushing some of this stuff
into more production and then maybe the
next two weeks from now we can actually
use the production pier pad and it'll be
stable and that's my hope so that's it
for me that's awesome thank you Jim
very exciting any questions for Jim yeah
you know I think the sorry
regarding the corruption is it easy for
you to implicate or you need to to hook
into the puppeteer cluster and debug it
sir I I'd sort of like worked on my
particular first of all like the my
editor bindings are sort of throwaway
code that I just did when I sort of made
my pear pad Nano and I cut out a lot of
the production code so I don't really
consider that really important to fix
but the I got it so it wasn't happening
when I was just myself typing on my own
little instances but when we had a whole
bunch of people typing at once multiple
keyboards happening at once then it did
pop up so that was a hard thing to test
without automated automation so Pender's
been testing it with his test suite so
hopefully his version works better than
mine and I'll just switch - so any what
is what is corruption mean in this
context
so so imagine there's two writers and
I'm typing in one and the other writer
even nobody even though nobody's at the
keyboard it's modifying the document so
it's more like timing issues and like
it's getting the deltas in the wrong
order and then how the binding editor
bindings work as it's doing discs
between the CR DT and what's in the
editor that particular time so it's very
time so there D synchronized like that
steel editors lined up with different
versions of the data or different yeah
now the
I thought it was just a difference
inning so the intention of the user and
what it appears so the the key types and
that's my my view I'm not sure if it's
the Arditi is nobody cares about that
really well pension is like intention is
like not important so or not like ot is
better for attention preservation right
and CR DT is like yeah whatever you'll
figure it out later
yeah this is strictly a code mirror and
how we bound it into code mirror and
using the certainly creative things
algorithm and it's when it's written it
needs a little bit of locking because
it's like when you when you reading the
CR DT state it
it essentially types in to code mirror
and then that creates another more
Delta's which should be the same but
they never the deltas arrive at the same
time it's clarify I think I think it's
exactly that yeah I think it's that the
syncing between the nasarah T and the
code mirror that was a default at least
from what my tests and I think that they
should mostly be resolved I'm very keen
to see if Jim can can put the pin er
into that if you do introduce any
entropy into the system or not but I'm
expecting not but let's see yeah and
another another point on that one is
like we're sort of doing it sort of
crudely it's just like it's adding edits
in but like you're getting edits that
somebody else typed put into your code
mayor so if you hit undo that undoes the
other person's edits which is surprising
so people views code mayor for lots of
collaborative editor so I'm sure there's
support in there and we probably have to
use the API differently on coding here
so there's also problem with like
scrolling up and down like people were
typing in other parts so I think we're
we probably have to revisit the binding
Zilla bill and code mirror specifically
so there also exists this whole thing of
like undo CRT
she's um which may or may not be what
you're getting at but there's like a
whole bunch of papers and stuff about
that some of it is UX things that you
could think about like what does it mean
to undo but yeah just want to throw that
out there yes I think this is morally
yov why we issue in this case it's more
like I just want to undo what I did and
I still want to effect to charity to
progress not induce charity just just we
applied yondu if you if you say okay I
got it I feel like there's an issue off
because the deltas are virginal you're
kind of undoing a merged set of
operations that includes most the
intended actions and then they actually
distract her to be at the same time I
mean yeah you know yeah I think I think
we should have a better way of thinking
about like probably refer to sets of
things sets of Delta's because they
think that also applies to like
snapshotting because is it like do you
have like what does it mean if you're on
the same version you know right that's
right we could you could look into and
do in you know more in the in the in the
Delta context yeah that makes sense the
thing yeah we're losing a bit of
information we may lose a bit of
information as we're reducing the the
deltas and so I think in terms of the
history of the document I think you have
to revisit sorry I might have one more
question for Jim and perhaps it's more a
generic question also perhaps involves
you and which is the Pinner
at the moment correct me if I'm wrong
doesn't support any kind of sharding
that's by charting I mean I'd say that
this case if I has a lot of
collaborations or discussions a single
Pinner is responsible for the whole set
of discussions happening at the same
time right so interesting to have like
configuration where it could
specify a sharding function so that we
can split the the pinners among assets a
subset of a set of discussions do to be
more performative scale as scales matter
whose camera yeah I think that would be
great
it was already a task to split off the
Pinner into a separate repo and I can
see like look I can immediately see that
people are going to have all sorts of
different types of pinners with
different strategies and so there's just
the simple single spinner and but then
there's like the situation where you
don't even need a pinare but there might
be a situation where you want to have a
cluster of pinners so I think they're
all directions worth exploring
every one more question and when you're
saying you updating their heads on your
hard disk are you saying in IP NS so you
wrote a different naming strategy I just
did a different just a stupidest naming
strategy I could do I just write out the
collaboration ID and then I just write
out let's see I lit the last CID into a
file on in the directory and that my we
start at the Pinner when it sees new
collaboration it just reads that and
closed in so I wouldn't mind doing the
code review with you if you have a
chance whether it seems to work for my
really trivial case I just want
something to work with my little demo so
that was our problem with IPs
um I wasn't my understandings IP NS will
only work on that one node right it
won't yes until the other stuff works
and then I pendulum it should do
effectively what you're talking about
I'll just write to the local rosa truth
yeah that's true I should I should you
just try that I think that they she was
AI penis wouldn't work in how I have it
deployed couple clicks oh we better talk
about that
cool any more questions Jim no but I
have a I can do a demo later if we have
time but maybe we don't have time
let's save us let's speed up avatar hi
there yeah I'm here um hello everyone
I'm Victor I used to be working mainly
on infrastructure stuff but now we have
people who actually want to work with
infrastructure so I'm gonna move to
other things one of the things that I am
very interested in in having is tearpad
as default application or not taking for
protocol apps people in the beginning
but I'm in the future everyone in the
whole world so what I'm what I'm gonna
try to focus on or a few things like the
essential thing that we need to make
pearpad great basically so some of the
things that I will be helping with is
deploying the Pinner I have a lot of
infrastructure stuff experience so I can
help deployed the the Pinner and we can
figure out the the architecture for for
all of that and I also the first thing
that caught my eye is that we don't have
a lot of metrics and health checks and
and other various numbers and and red
and green bottoms to understand if your
pad is actually working as it should be
working
so this helped in the deployed version
that we have that we can see more errors
we can catch things they were broken
earlier and stuff like that and then of
course I can help a lot with the testing
like the testing cluster that we just
been talking about Pedro is doing and
try to fold in the folding like metrics
in there as well and we can start doing
some benchmarking another interesting
thing
so that's my update I guess I started
thinking about this earlier today when I
sat down in a meeting with petrol I
still have some some other things to
catch up but I hope early work late this
week or early next week to start working
directly with pearpod and everything
that comes around there I'm currently
for this meeting and taking notes in
there bad even though I know it's maybe
not stable maybe they're all going to
disappear just to just to get us started
so I haven't placed based it in the
Google Chat
Victor I will probably be bothering you
the next week so that we can deploy the
Pinner for discussing files if that's
okay yeah so one thing I guess we have
to make sure is the difference between
the pearpad specific things and the the
peers our stuff so the painter should
probably work with both but just in
things in some way not being specific to
Pierre part and then we can figure out
the deployment so we can stay scale it
down depending on the application which
one is seeing the more you search and so
on but yes please bother me and I will
try to help you
yeah I may also bug you with things
about because I will I will also be
meeting different a different sort of
dinner I'm gonna be working on and all
thinking about that just just letting
you know okay cool any questions or more
questions
so I can say that Victor I've ever
excited to have you here Rico has been a
longtime contributor to coach internet
protocol apps product protocol I deploy
and for a long time longer than much
longer than I've been so I'm very
excited to have you in here helping us
to drive this thing further and just
wanted to say welcome
alright so next up undress Susan I'm
gonna give you update everyone so for
the last two weeks I've concluded the
discussing I updates on components and
you our journey is focused for most best
which shadows are present to the way
that Pedro and then I continue with the
pear pad working under your eye level
mostly improving improvements for
desktop that's almost finished and then
currently I'm working on the mobile
version that yesterday I had a call with
Arkady and Pedro we had some some some
discussion between some user experience
and UI that were will rework and right
now I'm looking at I did and already
provided a new demo without all of those
changes it will be a good exercise to
try to share with all of you the demo
and just try to gather feedback maybe in
visually individually since if I'm
already showing at the demo I will be
influencing each one it's one of you
with my with my word so I will try to do
if this exercise at least for for this
time so next in progress I have the key
away for discus if I and then something
that already talked with the Salazar and
the next steps will be returned to IDM
which was holding on and until now and
therefore for the next two weeks I think
it should be my focus thank you
questions for a drive recording them
like thanks decided daily said you reach
us by email or yeah I mean I may send an
email with some of the features that
were predicted and some of the changes
that were created from the implemented
version for the new version that I'm
suggesting and if I will create
something right right straight away with
a high level so it will be easier to
understand what's changed and try to
come up with questions for me so I can
understand this is like a user testing
experiment
but yeah just just for us for now
perhaps we could use like you know get
of issue I guess it's tomorrow yeah yeah
yeah okay okay thank you good suggestion
yeah
any more questions suggestions for there
if not Marco are you there
but cozy very um I'm here as a meeting
so I'm mark Oliveira I'm I'm helping out
mainly with discuss a fight and I'm also
helping with the design working group so
I'll start by saying that on the discuss
of I think whoops
I finished reviewing the UI and UX with
Andre Sosa suggested a few changes to
make the UI cleaner and we reiterated on
the threaded conversation which ended up
creating a few a few changes right now
in progress as I said I'm also mediating
with the design working group which is
just coming up it has no final shape I'm
trying to do my best to represent the
needs from the dynamic data and
capabilities working group there right
now we're discussing mainly process
goals and collaboration with our teams
I'm also trying to get the next of UGS
going which will be a good chance for us
to to redo the building gaps on the
permanent web workshop this time a
little shorter and create a good
recording of that so that we can share
that with with the community more in a
more effective way there's also another
task that I've discussed discussing with
with with a sadness or and rakers which
is also doing a workshop on how
discusses Phi was built as a sort of
guideline for for people trying to build
something in a similar fashion so that's
a discussion in progress right now next
up my - my next task will be discussing
how and where will release the specify
and this is something that I also want
to bring in Pedro just see what the
expectations are here
what type of users we should be bringing
in also I want to bring so
which channels and influencers will
engage web to promote its it's huge its
usage right now it's mainly probably
just a group of concepts so we have to
see who would be the right influencers
to bring in to get people excited about
it's a new task that just came up from
like half an hour ago I need to help
drop in the the roadmap as well and I
need also to direct you to help me out
here and see what what's what sort of
help he needs from me here I will be
providing feedback on keypad 220 a Andre
Sosa
I already provided some that I I want to
see that video we mentioned I haven't
seen it yet
last IDM concepts and overall look and
feel I have and Ray I have a feeling
that time will be short to be well to do
this in the next couple of weeks but
it's a discussion to to follow
so it's the Identity Manager have you
read the RFC about suit identity that
it's on pierced are now actually I have
an idea
I will link on on here on soon thank you
all right new questions for automatical
as I said just a discuss a PHY question
because I'm still just new and learning
about it
the I got invited recently to like the
file claim like discuss it like you know
discuss group which I imagine is
supposed to be doing a similar sort of
thing is the idea we could like
potentially use them as guinea pigs and
you know I don't flooded that out there
as an option of trying to you know get
you know some of the dog fooding and
using our own stuff that feels like a
project that might be able to make use
of this okay so at the moment it's
probably too early to be using it is
usually specified for a really important
conversation that you want to well you
want to guarantee that you keep it in in
the future because a few things are
still changing also the the persistence
still needs to be taken care of with
pinning and also I suspect what what you
are talking about is more like a forum
and less about people gathering around a
page and discussing that page correct
yeah I think it's yeah I think it's more
forum like yeah okay yeah it's probably
not the right use case for for poorly
specified specify it's more about a next
or a layer on right well right now it's
an extra layer on top of a webpage
essentially web annotations and having a
discussion the centralized discussion
around a web page now that thanks
but with identity right he already has
you support for identity and the plan is
to use that as a driver for the identity
management that we're going to to try
out any more questions for mark
No is the is the identity thing who is
that where's that own buyer who is
running that I put a link on them on the
owner shets you can read that afterwards
he's quite huge the ear steer like the
main contact point for for that yeah
yeah I say I would say that a moment I
mean you can can reach me out and I will
explain any doubts idiot Eve my hand
yeah it was more of more of a who
question thing but by the way I want to
make notes every time identity comes up
in a discussion a lot of people show
interest and and well coming from very
different groups so one we might need to
eventually bring those people in because
each each person is trying to defend a
certain agenda and a lot of that is very
reasonable at the same time we have to
balance that with how effective we are
we don't we don't want to be frozen just
because we are getting way too much
feedback or briefing so it's it's just
something that I want to raise that I
feel it will start to happen once we we
get the actual developments for IDM
going yeah I agree with the identity is
the absolute worst problem I've ever
seen in every developer has a very
strong opinion about how it should work
so work forward progress we have to be
identify that and then clear the path
yeah I agree
it's everyone has the one view on but
yeah anyway more questions about for
Marco no okay
I can share my update quickly so we just
released your pure star at pushing 0.9.0
and 0.1 this weekend for for most fast
fixing some issues and also adding
memorization for the shared value so
repeated shared value access is just
Nicastro and recomputing the states all
the time
but into any load test is slow tests
plus some fixes are merged into master
so we can run game run tests each we
loads and you can run the tests yourself
so with that we for most files to do
with pure pads like with those small
fixes versions you know 3.1 so these are
just back in fixes back-end and so yeah
when Tomas first little workshop with
suppose or and next I would like to
focus on time on improving the pier pad
into and load and correctness tests
focus focus more on now on on their
different scenarios for for correctness
already had adding text syncing and then
performing changes and verifying that
everyone since the same value now I want
to test that preserving intention as we
discussed so that's something that I
want to do to work on to make sure that
that that users are are okay acidity
that that converges to everyone covers
the same value but the volume it doesn't
have anything to do with with what the
input was is that a very useful see
oddity so I want the it's not not
testing the charity itself and I see
more that the sync between the binding
and sorry the seam between the editor
and charity interest payment
and and so yeah that's my update you
want to have some questions for me any
question what you were saying it's more
related to my desk I need to set up some
time to talk to you in the next couple
of weeks just want to race you
yes I have some discussions to have
mainly for roadmap etc thank you I will
follow up after after this meeting with
with some masks from you and some
someone tried to set up an agenda for
for how should meet them and think about
you have commando you're right you can
just like you can just schedule more
questions no so I think we still have a
few minutes when to jump into into demo
I think we have like three demos address
Loza
new version design demo we have time for
all this probably not if people want a
lot since we hello let's start if people
are able to just we're not regarding my
demo I can use the interim issue as
shadows are mentioned previously yeah I
think I think that ticket is off on
people who want to take their time into
and absorb everything and then give
their feedback so I think it's my may be
useful to make it offline is that okay
[Music]
next up Jim so my demos the same thing
at the same video I posted last night
is that okay do you want to see it again
here I think the way we have everything
more here we have a video for it like
this cuz if I also have a video for it
but it's cool nonetheless anyone I've
seen I haven't see the video so if you
keep it short I think it's worth playing
out okay it's really easy okay sure then
so whoever is is you know later on
listening and viewing this video will be
sing to them as well so I have to this
is just running on my own machine so I
have to pee pad nanos which is just a
reduced version of your pad and if I if
I start it I don't have a depinna
training right now so test and then and
anybody wants to join you can join and
then oh but then I'd have to pass you
the URL better not join actually cuz
then the Pinner one so it's going to
sink should sink up here hopefully yeah
so I got it so of course the problem is
if I if I reload both of these at the
same time I'm going to lose the data
so I lost the data so test-tube that's
why you're not see using that's why
you're not using them the browser
indexed to be storage yes I turned that
off just for performance reasons but
it's also a good test with the Pinner so
yeah so he told in my memory yeah so
it's all in memory so there's no index
DB anymore in my version so okay so I'm
going to fire up the pin here
and you can see the appear ID I just
take the last three characters so ZB e
is the Pinner
and I know it seems take take a while to
connect sometimes okay okay it should be
pinning so if I type you can see the
deltas and then I've got it configured
every tenth edit is a snapshot so so
this is pinned us all into IPL D if I
put if I if I take a look at one of
these say in explore IPL D you can see
that and then it's got that's a delta so
Delta's always have a parent and then
the parent was a snapshot so that has
all the data in yet originally I when I
was doing this the it wasn't saving the
snapshots properly so that might be
something I have to talk to Dirk about
but anyways also when I'm typing here
I'm also I've modified this I'm not
using IP NS although I could I'm just
writing out little files that look like
I'm just writing the last CID for its
natural or Delta into it and so so that
means that when I shut this down and I
restart it okay I'll do a real test here
so if I reload both of these at the same
time I've lost the data but then if I
start up the Pinner again it should read
from the
the CID from this little file and then
it reads the rest from the local GSI PFS
node and you can see it sync the data so
that's basically the demo very cool they
still are we when I say it's very cool
yeah so yeah for this particular use
case I should try it again with the IPS
so I don't know if I had found bugs or
not but I had to make a few changes to
actually get this to work with the
little file thing so I probably the IPS
window probably had the same sushi
whatever I have I have three pinners
deployed using the site now service but
they have ephemeral disk so as soon as
they reboot the disk gets reset so just
putting in the local node isn't going to
give me a new have mixer you can bother
him different sector so I'll just
connect here so filter once I wanted to
get out of infrastructure and now you're
bringing in one thing that I wanted to I
want to bring going just after this demo
is that for the user in this case for
Peapod it just wants to know if what he
has typed is saved right yeah that's
what that's what we really cares about
and to do that properly we need a way to
identify the Pinard or the Phoenix
because it can be one that can be
champenoise running so I have a
discussion with Pedro about this and we
if if you have identity already in place
each Pinner will have perhaps ten
pinners could have the same identity so
it's cool it could be like pure pure
pods pure pad Pinner like that entity
name per se but it won't have the same
key ID so the application could identify
the pin earth-2
to see if if it pushed so if it's synced
with that peer which is the peer node
the pinning mode in order to present
saved to the user that's something that
I've been thinking about and I wanted to
say that so that everyone here can also
think about that as a possible solution
to this problem
mm-hmm yeah I think there's also the the
situation where we might not have
pinners if if all the nodes are pinning
cooperatively yeah of course yeah it's a
it's a there's two scenarios actually
there's a scenario where the application
itself as a pinging a pinning over one
or more pinning nodes and there are
community pinning nodes that people can
you know contribute to the network in
order to provide availability so we need
to think about that just wanted to you
know to mention that and possibly you
will be thinking about that solution we
converging for switch oh it's just a
clarifying question when when you guys
are talking about pinning are you
talking about like name pinning or data
pinning like are you pinning this is the
hash of the latest version or are you
pinning this is the data in the latest
version or both aren't you for my for my
thing it's mostly the data so it's just
you know if if everybody shuts down
their web browser and then they joined
the collaboration again later as the
data still there but Jim easy the data
or the deltas how dark stuff works is it
saves Delta Delta Delta and then I'll do
a snapshot it's configured bollock
I set it to 10 so it's like every 10
keystrokes it'll save at Delta but you
might want to do it more or less like
that's probably sort of small cuz they
each each Delta is a single character so
you might wanna have larger I'm you know
I'm asking these because of them
and the data that you are snapshotting
is if it's encrypted you're starting the
encrypted version of the data how's that
work yeah just just to kind of segments
from CPU cycles that's what I'm doing
but it's possible to cook we could
decrypt and then rain Krypton with the
different chi or something like that I
think the question is more how do I you
expecting this state if you don't have
the decryption keys or step in you have
or disappear have the decryption key
because well you have the data you
shouldn't be seeing it like the Pinner
shouldn't be able to decrypt the data
because of the privacy concerns so that
makes it pretty difficult to do
snapshots you sort of have to like ask
another node for a snapshot so one of
the advantages of having leader election
and having a single node who's already
part of the collaboration be fact as the
Penner is that you don't have to worry
about those issues yeah they don't have
to share that the Pennock they don't
have to have a separate pin here that
has to have the private key or this
shared shared secret key but but
currently Jim so your your solution do
you delegate the keys so do you
configure the keys in the Pinner or is
it the public location so remember with
my my demo actually removed the keys so
I'm using no encryption so I actually
had to modify my version so it just has
a like a and there's an I just changed
the encryption function so they just an
identity like there's no encryption
happening so right that's okay for this
particular it's a fairly permissive you
know it's it's okay for collaborations
where you're basically keeping the key
of the class the the name of the
collaboration secret of course that gets
all shared on the pub/sub things so if I
want to keep your app app name secret as
well but in in real production I think
we're probably going to use it I just
turned off the encryption because it's
just hard to debug the thing with all
the encryption turned on so and also
ffff problem where you what you won't be
able to to do
the deltas into into the state without
having a note liver you the states I
know that has so it that there is a
privacy privacy issue issue there but
you can still get good instead from a
different note or you can get a okay
quite a protocol for for to ask for the
state because or for the notes about
that there is a Pinner and that they
should send the state now and then to
the pin or not you know we could could
debate this you know negative issue
I think it's interested in like how fast
is it with the encryption turned off
because uh we want to just see what's
the performance impact is with it so we
can benchmark it so he can go yeah this
is how fast it is was it turned off then
we turn it on what's overhead like
that's gonna impact scalability that's
very very yeah insightful you shouldn't
measure this now that we have lucky to
we load tests we could do okay turning
turning off encryption this desire these
are the results we have multiple
encryption to do SEC IO encryption on
the Y area at rest just let's throw it
in while we're talking about this that
there's uh when you if you go and you're
gonna start like encrypting your
encrypting your deltas again and then do
the comparison and all likelihood you're
gonna want to spread the encryption out
over multiple deltas or have the deltas
be more data than just a character
because then you're just asking for
timing attacks and it's like why bother
encrypting if you're just gonna have a
timing attack that's a very good yeah of
course which we I was thinking that we
in terms of this is more more pure plans
but I think it applies also to others
which the persistence of today we don't
need to persist on every keystroke right
so we could have the deltas saved
without without being able to actually
extract the timing of the title from the
user and so we you could have less so
again I like things like really good
things or something like that
instead of just just having every stroke
being said so so from a UX perspective I
think it's important to keep in mind
that we'll probably want like adaptive
like Delta formation or like
snapshotting in terms of like get like
how fast you're typing playing basically
like rest periods of what you stop
typing for a little bit that should
generate a snapshot even if it doesn't
kind of like fit the right number or if
you're typing really fast that you can
probably try to consolidate that into
like fewer Delta's right so we should
have like flexibility for yeah much more
intelligent in the future yeah I think
it's gonna depend like applications are
quite different so like not all
applications these appear star APRA
gonna be collaborative editing um like
you might want to collapse a bunch of
deltas together even though they're
different authors and everything just
see for like an undo history type of
thing early good like I want to see what
what the document state was two days ago
or something great but you know
sometimes you just wanted to be able to
undo a few characters so the the best
thing is that it's all policy basically
so that's that should be just part of
the configuration or something but we're
how was the period over which you want
to would you sorry to join Delta's think
that that's that's really important yeah
otherwise yeah yeah otherwise your
subjects timing attacks and yes as the
Dean said why I bother with encryption
yeah yeah I also just wanted to let
Andre know that I'm in addition to the
current stuff that we're doing with care
pod with leadership and persistence to
try and move that along I'm trying out
something a little bit different that
will hopefully allow us to experiment
with more options on on how it is that
we want to do that persisting or how
does you want to do snapshots and
whether you want to give someone the
permission to snapshot or you want to
give you know have some sort of
consensus II based snapshotting just be
able to have more options than what
we're doing in step zero just to get
this off the ground so like what you
know it was happening
I
Genda something like hello world from
victor welcome is this something that i
just as just noticed literally is there
something else that you want to well no
I was thinking of doing what I did
before but after everything but okay we
already went through everything yeah so
I think we're fairly off because we also
started late fairly of schedule so I
think if anyone everyone is okay with
this we should wrap this up and I call
all these conversations are not offline
and P type issues probably on IRC over
sessions are one two ones is that okay
anyone with everyone
yeah all right a pointer that I I I put
a link in my notes if you're interested
and sort of sharing sharing stuff and
nothing just the note that it's there
yeah okay George
yeah I'll follow up also with with the
roadmap the working group roadmap plans
not plans but try to try to make make
time for us to meet them and come up
with the roadmap all right do we want to
do some prep for that asynchronously
because I feel like there's a bunch of
stuff that we can put down like the
length of the polygon thing I think we
can do offline pretty much and then a
three things we can like put a bunch of
suggestions down and then we can discuss
it's real time I think that's very very
useful we should we should first do that
like have our input and then we'll have
a meeting on on on thinking that
everyone I agree so yeah if everyone
could good start and on on on that with
the people that were at the meeting
that's we can then like tomorrow or the
day after we could join and join we will
put it did a lot with with the an try
and schedule something for tomorrow or
day after
good all right well thank everyone for
coming see you soon okay thank you